welcome to another AMA live I'm your
host Tom bill you and I'm here to answer
your questions and it is madness we're
about to spill over into December I
literally can't believe it this is my
favorite time of year so thank you guys
so much for joining me and a couple
quick things one dig this grit t-shirt
that I'm wearing
check it out on shop impact Theory comm
get yours today we've just hit the last
two months we've hit record sales I'm
super super excited by how much the
community is embracing these bad boys
we've got a whole bunch of stuff there
so not just this but a lot of mindset
stuff go check it out get yourself
signal until all your dreams come true
all right and then next up as a note
relationship theory is now podcast only
and Facebook right so Facebook and
podcasts so won't be on YouTube anymore
but you can still find it on Facebook
and the podcast where it is crushing it
so if you're not already watching that
go check it out I think you will love it
whether or not you're in a relationship
we get a lot of people saying even
though they're not in a relationship to
feel that it's arming them isolette
something that i do with lisa my amazing
wife so be sure to check that out all
right without further ado question
number one comes from Carrie
Epperson all right hey Tom lately I feel
like I am connecting to my more
authentic self very good news I'm
finding I'm getting less traction in my
following however a few people I have
really admired I have recent connections
with the stress of exposing too much my
true self and being labeled is keeping
me up at night and I have a fear of
scaring people away do I keep on my path
and be okay with taking a detour
hopefully a wormhole to success or do I
do the opposite all right so first and
foremost it can be really dangerous to
over focus on following ironically we
actually think about the raw numbers
here a lot engagement though is like the
metric by which we really judge our
community so raw numbers and engagement
that's we really do want huge numbers in
both because of what we're trying to do
with the studio but for a normal person
who's really trying to build a god it
really does depend on what you're trying
to do with your social following so I
don't know enough to really go too deep
on that but I will say
focusing on the numbers is a bad
strategy now authenticity is always the
right strategy but that doesn't mean
that there aren't parts of your life
that you don't talk about so even in
relationship theory for instance I get
really squeamish talking about sex which
is odd because I am like off camera I am
NOT weird about that at all I would go
hard for that cake it's just too many
years of being an entrepreneur and being
in a business setting where I find
talking about that like every alarm bell
that I have goes off because you never
know like what's rubbing people the
wrong way so while in my personal life I
am way comfortable with sex and talk
excuse me I'm talking about it on camera
I get really weird about it so I just so
I just don't talk about it so that's one
of those things that you need to decide
for yourself what you're willing to show
and not but everything that you do show
should be 100% authentic I cannot stress
that enough in the world of social media
you want to collect people who actually
think like you think who have a similar
worldview a similar set of values
because at the end of the day and again
god some of this stuff is just so
specific to what it is you're trying to
do with your following so I'll use mine
as an example I only care about people
that are interested in a growth mindset
and I'm talking across the board
everything that we're gonna do with this
company is all about mindset so whether
it's a comic book whether it's the
social content that you're watching
right now I'm gonna be real I'm gonna be
authentically myself I only want people
in the community that see and think that
way because of what I'm trying to do in
the world I'm trying to actually have
impacts why it's called impact Theory my
theory of how to impact people on a
global scale is all about belief system
it's about mindset it's about actually
building a set of values that are gonna
help people help others and help
themselves and really achieve something
with their life so to actually actuate
their potential that that's just my
obsession so I don't want people in the
community that don't understand that
they don't see that that aren't gonna
feed into that and help that help other
people adopt that and really be sort of
the global community of you know the the
five people you spend your most time
with obviously the numbers are way
bigger than that but I will say that the
five ideas that you spend the most time
with so that's really really important
so I want people in the community that
reinforced that so
I'm not gonna hedge my bets I'm not
gonna soften my message I'm gonna go
hard on that stuff so that's that's the
top level log line always be authentic
I'll give you another reason why you
should be authentic eventually people
are gonna come for you so if you have a
big enough following they're gonna be
people that want to tear you down that
want to see you lose and if you've been
faking it along the way that would be
very easy for them to tear you down
so when I decided to step out front
about three years ago I said okay look
I'm gonna have to be authentically
myself and my mantra was I'm only gonna
say things that if you woke me up in the
middle of the night so I'm already
drowsy and confused you punched me in
the head so now I'm dazed and confused
and asked me a question I'm gonna give
you the same answer in front of the
camera that I would give you then when
I'm confused and it's literally just
sort of gut instinct and the truth of
who you are as a human being that has
served me very well and that's one of
the reasons so for those of you that
don't know when I get invited to speak
somewhere I do what I call the endless
Q&A and the endless Q&A means I will
stand there and answer questions as long
as there are questions to answer and my
record is 11 hours now if you're
essentially live on camera we did alive
for 24 hours once if you're on camera
that much and you're answering questions
from a thousand different angles there's
no like a lot of times the celebrity is
pretty funny they make you give them the
questions ahead of time so that they can
prepare their answer so not only I have
no preparation I have absolutely no idea
what people are gonna ask me they can
ask me anything from anywhere and I want
to make sure that everything that I've
been saying in building the persona is
just 100% consistent and the only way to
do that is to not [__] so I don't
tell lies that's one of the reasons that
I swear on camera is because I swear off
camera just as much as I do on camera
it's just me it's the truth of who I am
it doesn't mean that I can't like give a
talk where I don't but I'm really trying
to be authentic so oddly I can feel
myself like I have a lot more that I
could say about that be authentic it
will serve you well you will collect the
people that you want if you're afraid of
who you really are that should because
you said that it's actually keeping you
up at night that's probably a sign that
maybe you're not satisfied with who you
are right now and so working on evolving
that rather than building a following is
probably the right answer to get
yourself in a position where you are
either proud of who you are or proud of
what you're trying to become and then
just be honest with people about that
journey okay that's enough on that all
right Jose Gabriel Gonzalez from
Facebook hey Tom during your tide Lopez
after impact episode you mentioned that
as a rule you always say yes could you
expand on what that means to you that
rule seems to conflict with the idea of
saying no to distractions so that one
can focus on the things that actually do
matter in other words how do you manage
to actually get stuff done if you go
around saying yes everything all right I
really wish that Agent Smith was here he
wants to punch me in the head most days
because I say yes to way too much you're
on to a nuance which is 80% of business
is actually knowing what not to do and
so when I say that I have a rule to
always say yes I'm not talking about in
a business context I already say yes to
too much in a business context and by
the way I'm just gonna take this
opportunity to beg forgiveness of all
the people because I'm getting really
ruthless about my time now I'm gonna be
saying no to you not because you're not
amazing not because you can do
incredible things just because it's not
gonna help me move the studio forward
and that really is just like everything
that I'm focused on right now so saying
yes is in my my free time where my
predilection is to always stay home to
never go out to never do anything to
literally just sit and stare at my wife
that is literally my favorite pastime or
play video games with my wife or read
like God even just now like thinking
about the things that I like to do by
myself
they are legion so I find that I tend to
stay home too much that I don't network
enough that I never go out and meet
people I'm not doing things that have a
chance of something extraordinary
happening to me so I had to develop a
system of always saying yes when I get
weird invitations to things as a way to
get myself out there so yeah that that's
where that comes from so it really does
fit into a more narrow part of my life
versus just like a blanket statement
that I always say yes but if you're
somebody that's there's no momentum
going on in your life you're not sure
what you want to do then broadening that
to more and more like if somebody comes
to you even in a work context and wants
your help then the answer they're
assuming that you've already gotten your
work done probably
should be yes so that you're meeting new
people you're learning new things you're
broadening your network there within the
office I think all of that stuff is
really really smart if you guys haven't
seen the episode of Olympia Lapointe she
talked about that and how one of the
greatest mentors that really helped her
become the the successful rocket
scientist that she was was this guy that
just had an overwhelming amount of work
he asked for help and she said yes so it
there there really are great examples of
how engaging with people saying yes
getting outside of your comfort zone I'm
gonna serve you very well
so all right next question Lisa medaka
which as a widow at 50 years old I'm
struggling to figure out where to go
from here I already love this question
I'm wondering is 50 too old to do any of
what you speak of how do you figure out
how to proceed starting from such an age
all right Lisa lean in this is very very
important so at no matter what the age
none of us have like I may die in the
middle of this episode from an aneurysm
right we can all admit that that is true
what happens to people all the time so
the future isn't guaranteed to any of us
as we get older we think well the future
may not be guaranteed but like death is
getting closer and closer and so people
get themselves in this weird [__]
mentality that they don't have the time
to do what they want to do now that
probably is true by the way if you're
like 80 years old right now you should
probably start thinking on things that
are more immediate things that don't
necessarily take five years it doesn't
mean that you don't try to do really
grand things and Tim Ferriss just
interviewed a guy 78 if I'm not mistaken
I was the founder of the Whole Earth
Catalog I don't remember his name but if
you look up Whole Earth Catalog you'll
be able to find it Tim Ferriss interview
Whole Earth Catalog for sure you're
gonna get it and he talked about that
now this is a guy that's still doing
incredible things at 78 but he does
think about what's the the realistic
expectation of return on my time so that
if it's something that's gonna take five
years to return he doesn't do that but
at 50 Jesus like you've got 30 years in
my book before you really have to start
worrying assuming you live a somewhat
healthy life before you have to start
worrying about wow I really just don't
have the time so 50 is a way young B
at any age I think that people really
really need to understand even in a year
you can get a lot of stuff done and it's
really really all about the brain
chemistry of enjoying the process so
find something intrinsically in and of
itself that you enjoy doing that you
think is worthwhile that you think is
going to help the people that you want
to help and if you ask and answer the
question what would I do every day in
love even if I were failing then go in
on that so god I wish we were sitting
together right now because I really have
a lot of questions like what your fears
are is it a fear of failure is it if
you're not making money which is a scary
thing my mom who just turned 70 I'm so
excited for her to retire but she is
clearly afraid to retire but it's like
now you can pursue those things that you
would enjoy doing and even if you want
to make money like there are a million
ways these days to make money my mom
would be an insanely good copywriter she
could take gigs when she wanted pass
them up when she doesn't the gig economy
like all of this stuff is real anyway I
get so [__] excited like yes a
hundred percent you are at a perfect age
to be doing all the things that I'm
talking about because the greatest part
of the things that I'm talking about
mindset is what it does to your brain
chemistry and in simply allowing
yourself to believe that you can get
better at anything that you decide to
set your mind to whatever that is your
job
crocheting underwater basket-weaving
snowmobile riding whatever like whatever
it is that you want to get better at you
can get better at and that process of
actuated your potential is in and of
itself intoxicating so look I'm 41 homie
and I'm halfway through the 41 so
there's like not exactly a gaggle of
years between you and I but I promise
you at 50 I will be the bundle of energy
that people warm their hands on that has
just been the truth of my existence for
a very long time because I forced myself
to focus on the optimistic thing so go
out and get it all right Mason hull
khalaq hey Tom how do I know when to
keep an open mind to someone who's
giving me advice oh god this is great
did you fight you I know why you picked
this is he on camera can we get this
[__] on camera this kid oh guys
his name is chase he introduced
- one of the most important books I've
ever read this is gonna be in the top
probably top 5 I really principles by
Ray Dalio I really have to think about
where in people's journey they need to
encounter it because it isn't
necessarily the four it's definitely not
the first book you want to read but oh
god it's so good so and he addresses
this and so I'm basically gonna give you
what I learned from him but let me
finish reading the question how do I
keep an open mind to someone who's
giving me advice versus when to ignore
them to not allow myself to fall off my
own track and mindset when is it helpful
advice versus hurtful advice all right
so Ray Dalio has a principle called
believability everybody needs a
believability score now this guy takes
it to the [__] extreme and by the way
I just took a note for us to really
implement this stuff here we're gonna
have to figure out how everyone needs an
actual numerical value that each of us
can look at and say this is Chase's
believability score this is Tom's
believability score so you really do
have to like make it quantifiable so if
somebody's giving you advice about
something that they have not done in
their own life then they have basically
a zero believability score and somebody
who is a zero believability score
shouldn't be pushing their idea like
they know something they should be
asking a lot of questions now when
you're talking to somebody that's done
and Ray Dalio saying is three times or
more if they've successfully done
something three times or more than they
have believability in that area so you
want to find people to have
believability that really know what
they're talking about and then you
should listen you should ask a lot of
questions you should really come to
understand it if they haven't done that
they may still have amazing ideas but
what you need because the you know
sometimes a novice has really fresh
insights because they're just not stuck
in the dogmatic ways of thinking that
experts usually get into but you need to
be thinking about it differently so
rather than listening to their
conclusions you should be trying to
understand their methodology how did
they get there what is their process
their reasoning for making the statement
that they're making now if their
reasoning is sound then their conclusion
may very well be worthwhile but you have
to understand their reasoning so one of
those two things so either they are an
expert in that area and thusly you
should listen or they are not and you
should
be thinking about what their process was
to get to that conclusion then you have
to be able to derive your own assessment
as to whether or not you should listen
to them there's not gonna be anything
more empirical than that mad shout out
to my boy Ray Dalio for that god I love
this book okay question from Michael
Foster Facebook Michael foster you're
the man
PS by the way what are your thoughts
about what Brendan assuming Brendan
Bouchard was saying about high
performers raising necessity and how has
that played a role in your story to
develop impact theory first of all thank
you for asking this question I'm
actually resisting the urge to bite the
microphone right now because I want to
answer so aggressively that I'm forcing
myself to be a little bit mellow this is
one of those things you will own you
will only get from your life what you
need what is an aching burning must-have
in your life those are the only things
that you're gonna get and guys every
time I [__] talk to somebody that is
dissatisfied with their life it is
because they do not have a crushing
needs something that they must make come
true in their life do you want to know
why the studio is going to work because
I think about this [__] so [__]
obsessively I have no need to be right I
need the right answer and because I need
this to be successful so badly my ego is
the [__] out of the way because I just
need to know what is actually going to
work so I am voraciously seeking out
people that have better answers than me
that might know more something that more
about it than me
like when you're there when you're in
that position then you're capable of the
extraordinary because you will get the
hell out of your own way so to put it
nice and succinctly it is the only thing
that is real unless it is an aching need
for you you're not going to be
successful not at the level that I'm
talking about you've got to find a way
to turn it into a need you've got to and
that's why the darkness the sickness is
so powerful that's why the bat in Batman
is such an incredible metaphor of being
unwilling to tolerate anything but
success read Tim Grover's relentless
heat
about it it's perfect read read read Tim
Grover relentless all right thank you
for that one Dan bead YouTube hi Tom any
advice on getting critical feedback and
how you're performing from others eg
no b.s what would it take but from
others I know this helped you at Qwest
paid coach maybe paid coach could be a
great one if you can find a really great
coach I've got no beef with that I think
that I'm particularly bad at getting
amazing feedback from people and that is
something that we're really trying to
work on here I think that my personality
is very aggressive and people so you
take my personality which is already
aggressive I say things very
emphatically when I believe them by the
way and then you couple that with the
fact that I pay people salary and all
the sudden people tend not to say the
hard things and so were what we're doing
now so principles by Ray Dalio literally
rocked my world to the very foundation
and we are going to be implementing a
version of that here at impact theory
and that requires people to come out of
their shells now I have to do a very
good job of making sure that the people
understand and this is the answer to
your question you have to do a very good
job make sure that people understand
that you really want that feedback that
you're not gonna slap them around for
giving it to you that you really want to
get better that you value their insights
but that you also have to understand
that not everybody is believable and
everything that they're gonna tell you
so creating the environment where you're
getting you're spending the most time
getting the answers the no [__]
answers from people that you actually
think have valuable feedback to provide
you is very very important but never
negating somebody that's not necessarily
high in the believability score but has
a very sound set of logic that they're
using to break your personality down or
whatever so that's really really
important and it starts with showing a
willingness to receive that feedback to
not be punitive to not get
passive-aggressive you really have to
open your mind to that so as I do this
more here I will certainly feed you back
but yeah I have not yet cracked this nut
so this is very much
I spend my time so more on that later
all right you dear array as hi Tom I
graduated with my master's in adult
education in the spring of 2018 my
passion is to help minority and
first-generation college students
succeed in their academic journey
however I find that if I work in higher
ed institution I will not be able to
afford to pay my student loans what
advice do you have for me woo so I'm
probably not the person to ask this
advice because I think so
entrepreneurially but that's not what
you want to do so alright let's talk
about being a linchpin god hard question
okay so what you you actually want to
help minority and first-generation
college students okay uh here-here's
just this is how I think and I feel bad
because this is not gonna be a useful
answer to you because I I can just feel
in your question that an entrepreneurial
answer is not gonna be what you want to
hear but it's actually what I think is
the no [__] answer so if you change
out academic journey for just succeed
and being able to make their own dreams
come true you and I have the exact same
mission and so I looked at what does it
take and and the same is true whether
it's an academic journey or
entrepreneurial success or being a
lynchpin the truth is that people need
to get so good they can't be ignored and
the only way to do that is to develop a
growth mindset and the only way to do
that at scale because I have no interest
in one-on-one so if you want to do it
just one-on-one I mean I guess you could
create classes or something even there
I'm making you start a business but you
could certainly be a coach a tutor or
something like that and do one-on-one
and you could charge a lot for that if
you deliver astonishing results you
could charge a lot for that think of
Cesar Millan right was just a dog walker
in the inner cities but he was so good
that he just kept getting more and more
clients word of mouth and it was
celebrity clients and then he had his
own TV show and just on and on a ghost
but it all stems back from that dude is
so unbelievably good with dogs that like
he just needed to what I call get in the
room he needed to get in front of people
and show how good he was so if you could
deliver like imagine for a second I know
the SAT scores are different now
what they are but when I was going
through 1,600 was the max so imagine if
85% of the students that you tutor got a
1600 on their SATs you'd be the most
sought-after person you could charge
literally I'm not joking you could take
on ten kids at $100,000 a year and
literally parents will pay it you would
have a waiting list so that that's just
the truth so if you're getting results
like that at the end of the day that's
what it's all about now if you think
it's scale like I do then you've got to
come to the answer to the question of
what does it look like to affect belief
system because I believe humans lead
with belief what does it look like at a
belief system level to touch people on a
global scale and to me the answer is
narrative it's really taking a hold of
the things that build up the fabric of
our cultural belief system and changing
those and so you would end up building a
studio that is literally my theory so
there you have it all right next up
Patrick gora face book hey Tom when and
in what circumstances did you realize
that money did not make you happy in
your first company besides money what
else was considered to be the factor
that made you leave and start your own
path all right so what made me realize
that money didn't make me happy was
making more money than I'd ever made and
being completely miserable so I went
from like making I mean Jesus being on
the dole and getting paid unemployment
to making fifty thousand dollars a year
at my first stable job but there were
two of us and so supporting a wife who
didn't work and myself in 50k wasn't
exactly easy and then making when I
finally left that I was making I think
150 K a year so that for me was a lot of
money and on paper I had equity so I was
worth millions of dollars I was making
150,000 and I was still [__] unhappy
so that was like okay at this point it's
pretty clear that making more money cuz
I'd literally tripled my income and it
had in no way shape or form made my life
better it had not made me happier and so
just looking inward and really thinking
about that and saying okay well what
makes me think that if tripling my
income
to 150,000 and having all this on paper
money and then if I tripled it again
which would put me well into I think the
1% so what's one percent starts at four
hundred thousand I think so if I'm
making tripling that again yet would be
four hundred and fifty thousand so I'm
in the one percent like I can just
prognosticate what about that is gonna
make my life better so it was very clear
to me that the game I was playing was
not money it wasn't success it was brain
chemistry so imagine me learning that
and then walking in and quitting so it
was and that's what I did by the way so
I was just emotionally so unhappy is so
just like everyday sucked and waking up
on a Monday morning was total misery
going to bed on a Sunday night was
horrific and living for the weekends
just really really seemed like a bad
strategy so the emotional depths of my
despair was what made me go in and quit
which ultimately led me I didn't end up
leaving my partners were like hey we
feel the same way and so we then found
quest and it was all about value
creation and doing that which we thought
we would be passionate about every day
even if we were losing so yeah living it
going through that was critical and then
what else did I consider to be the
factor that made me leave yeah it was
unhappiness so they say a fool never
learns a smart man learns from his
mistakes and a wise man learns from the
mistakes of others I have often been a
fool I have been smart but I've rarely
been wise I hope you guys will take that
answer and be wise look I want to make a
lot of money a lot I've already made an
obscene amount of unnie and I want to
make a way more obscene amount of money
for sure I want to enrich my life very
much but I make the demand that I do it
in service of other people and in doing
that and in feeling like the way that
I'm building my business is humanity
plus is actually doing good things for
other people and giving them something
of real and lasting value I feel really
[__] good about that and since I know
the struggle is guaranteed and the
success is not the studio may never work
but I've completely given myself over to
building it and I love the process this
last year of my life which is the first
year or where I've been full-time doing
impact theory it has been the best year
of my life and I've done nothing but
hemorrhage
cash so that's like a no-brainer like
doing this and loving what I'm doing and
feeling like I'm adding value is way way
way more important to me than making
money that I'm not conflicted about
money though I'm not conflicted about my
wealth I'm not weird about that I'm not
apologetic I [__] worked my ass off
delivering value and creating value in
other people's lives and I should be
justly rewarded that's how to me it
should work so yeah I'm just not weird
about that but I am well aware that the
only thing that matters is how I feel
about myself that's it and all the money
in the world is not going to change that
so all right next question Jose Gabriel
Gonzales face book what strategies do
you use to stay in touch with family and
friends close to you when you were so
focused and impatient to achieve your
goals that you feel you have no time to
socialize well here's the really bad
news I am an atrocity at that I I think
my mother is mortified by how little
time I spend with her I am ridiculously
bad at maintaining close friendships I
was just talking to my wife about this I
so two things are working against me one
the level to which I love learning knows
no bounds
the excitement that I feel over building
the studio knows no bounds the
ridiculous way that my imagination is
captured by the thought of actually
pulling people out of the matrix at
scale is absurd and has occupies every
nook and cranny of my brain and then to
make matters worse I am obsessed with my
wife
obsessed and spending time with her for
me is is my great joy so if I found out
that hey you have three days to live
this so by everybody get the [__] out I
just want to be with my wife that's just
the truth like nobody does to my brain
chemistry what that woman does and that
has just been a truism since literally
the day I met her from the day I met her
and I don't believe in love at first
sight I was not in love but I was way
into spending time with this chick she
was super [__] cool and I wanted to
talk to her and hear her thoughts and
just sit with her and all of that
like yeah so because of all of that I'm
really bad at the other stuff and the
worst part is I actually value it and
the friends in my life I I am a little
heartbroken I don't spend more time with
him and when opportunities arise I do
try to take them there are a precious
few number of people that when I see men
I light up like a Christmas tree by the
way my mom one of them so it really is
ridiculous that I want more time so yeah
I'm the wrong person that has that
question but thank you for indulging me
as I walked through all of that but if
you love what you do it just sort of
recedes into the background Oh Lewis
Howes gave a great answer to this and he
said basically his highest priority is
his vision and he was like that's hard
to say to my family but the truth is my
highest priority is my vision so my
highest priority is my wife and I would
burn everything to the ground if I
thought that was [__] up my marriage
that is a true statement but then below
that is my vision and then below that is
family and friends it's hard to say out
loud but it really is true
and that's just from a pure visceral
emotional level Peter hurric Tom you
start a quest with your mom and sister
in mind did you have a person in mind
when you started impact theory yes and
how are your mom and sister doing with
that original struggle so the
fascinating thing for me a quest so my
sister lost 120 pounds was amazing she
went from clinically depressed to happy
I'm it's just like in the sanity to
watch her go through this whole weight
loss journey it was really really
incredible my mom continues to struggle
and that was always a really powerful
reminder that to really solve the
problem on a global scale there's just
so much more that has to change and
we're about to do a segment of impact
Theory called health theory and we're
gonna be bringing on thought leaders in
the health space because the more I
learn about this the more that I realize
not only does the entire food industry
have to change which is what I hope
quest continues to be a vanguard for but
we also have to be looking at the
healthcare system very specifically the
impact that it's had on the microbiome
and I'm sure as I research this more and
more I'm gonna realize that it's even
more terrifying and complicated than I
think now and I already think that it's
insane
complicated so that's a very big thing
but to solve my mom's problem because
you have to take the position of you
know it's just not that interesting to
my mom so she's not like you know diving
in and thinking how can I diet and
exercise and what can I do with my
microbiome just doesn't capture her
imagination so now you have to be able
to address somebody that is literally
either apathetic or totally antagonistic
to change and how do you affect even
them so changing the food supply is one
changing our healthcare system is
another so those are two of the tent
poles but there's probably gonna be you
know 15 tent poles so and then I think
that you would see people changing even
if they don't want to but as of right
now that is not the case and then oh yes
I did have a person that I was thinking
in mind when I started impact theory is
names were Sean and won't give you his
last name I figure I've said it before
but moving forward but that was the kid
that I worked with in the inner cities
that really first introduced me to the
problem of mindset to perspective and
how problematic that can be so I think
about him a lot alright vinca from
YouTube I have been depressed for years
okay I'm doing better but I can't
shaking nothing matters attitude I get
excited about my plans and start working
on them and then stop how do I stop
devaluing I think my future plans okay
so first of all if we're really talking
about depression like clinical
depression where your brain chemistry
and your wiring is now out of whack you
need to seek a professional do not [__]
around with depression the rates of
suicide among people that are depressed
is absolutely scary so literally what I
say to depressed people is you are
gambling with your life and that that is
just way too terrifying so I would very
immediately seek help and man don't be
tense about medication if you have to
medicate medicate like whatever we need
to do to get the brain chemistry moving
in the right direction that is first and
foremost then follow the following steps
none of them are going to be easy but
they will radically transform your
depression so number one get sleep go to
bed early
now you're probably having a chemical
problem with sleeping this is not the
form Matt to discuss that and I am NOT
an
expert so go research on that but you
need to do whatever the hell you need to
do to get sleep so prioritize sleep
second start working out first thing in
the morning of course you probably don't
want to but you absolutely need to and I
think the people that struggle with
depression 100% sleep exercise and eat
right those are the three most important
things mindset will be forth sleep
exercise diet those are the first three
mindset is fourth so I'm your number
four guy you need to get the other three
in place first so you're gonna go to bed
on time you're going to sleep as much as
you need don't set an alarm once you
wake up and yes I have a job too and I'm
gonna Bank on the fact that I work way
more hours in you so if I can sleep
without setting an alarm and my days
often start at like 4:00 in the morning
3:00 in the morning so you just have to
go to bed early which means yes you're
gonna be giving up things at night just
got to do it so get to bed work out work
out hard start however you need to start
ultimately we want to get you to working
out hard so you're really pushing your
body but doing something anything is
better than nothing even if it's just
going for a brisk walk and then next you
got to get your diet right so the very
easiest not easy simplest thing to do
cut out sugar period plain and simple
listen to Rob Wolf's podcast he takes a
non dogmatic approach to eating right he
had literally thought he was gonna have
to have the vast majority of his
intestines removed and he turned himself
around absolutely incredible story so
yeah get your diet right drop sugar if
you'll really let me push it drop
carbohydrates to virtually nothing if
you took in carbohydrates only from
vegetables in a steamed format you would
be way ahead of the curve and then read
about ketogenic s-- is a high high high
recommendation from me so yeah those are
the things and then from once you do
that come back and we'll talk mindset
all right Corliss Kirkwood sad boo so a
serious name I'm a single mom 39 I work
in IT and love my lifestyle or job
love and I love my lifestyle and job
that makes more sense I feel pressure to
do more all the time from others since
I'm outgoing and capable however I'm
afraid if I start a business I'll lose
my time and flexibility to be an amazing
mom do I seek to grow more
professionally or seek to hold on to
keep parenting values I would hate to
miss games or her activities what are
your thoughts you are making it very
easy to answer this question so
absolutely do not sacrifice on your key
parenting values clearly in your
question that tells me that that's
probably the paramount value in your
life that it's amazing know your value
system I don't think there is any one
way to be I think there is simply
acknowledging what is real and true for
you and so if you want to be a great
parent
yes crush it be the be a lynchpin work
within the framework of somebody else's
company going every you're gonna be
there anyway so it's about flipping a
switch and saying every day I'm going to
show up and I'm gonna play to win I'm
gonna try to get better every day I'm
gonna ask people how I can help I'm
gonna try to really create a safe team
in this company where they know they can
rely on me I can rely on them and I want
to find out like how my position plugs
into other departments that I can really
really do a great job and I can really
look at the problems that the company
faces and make sure that I'm addressing
that in a way that helps everybody so if
you're doing that you're getting so good
that you can't be ignored first of all
you're gonna move up the ranks you're
gonna be happier because I really
believe that a fundamental part of human
happiness is the gaining of mastery like
actually getting better as something not
plateauing and if you want to know about
plateau let's talk about doctors for a
second can you believe it's something
like by year three so let's say they're
a doctor for 30 years by year three they
get as good as they're ever going to get
and that the intervening 27 years don't
make them any better that freaks me out
that really freaks me out and it freaks
me out because doing something over and
over and over and over and over and over
and over and over and over does not make
you better
intentionally setting out and saying I'm
not very good at this and so I want to
get better at this particular thing how
do I go about it and then finding some
metric by which to judge yourself
so that's the key and then seeing if
you're actually making progress or not
so I highly highly encourage you to do
that
being a linchpin is really rewarding I
think it will rub off and your daughter
it'll still give you the time to do the
things that you want to do not having
the stress of being an entrepreneur all
that remember the vast majority of the
world is not gonna be an entrepreneur
the math just doesn't add up so there it
is all right Daniel bro Dan bro fitness
what is up dude all right when you
started your social platforms you
decided to build your personal brand
instead of using impact Theory brand
what pros and cons have you found from
using your name ok god damn it this this
is impossible to answer this question ah
so here's how it went
I'm not joking maybe the night before we
launched everything was going to be
impact Theory the only thing that we
were gonna build was impact theory and
the reason that I wanted to do that was
I knew that nobody's ever gonna tattoo
tom bill yuan themselves and I believe
in being a badge brand I believe in
meaning something to people and look if
you've been listening to me now for the
last year you know my obsession is
making impact theory a badge brand that
people will literally tattoo we've
already had at least two tattoos not of
the logo yet but we've had somebody
tattoo ideas in equal ideas out on their
wrist and we had somebody else tattoo
I'm the type of person that on their
forearm in fact who wasn't it was Daniel
Brees right so tattooed that on his
forum and I'm like dude that's when you
know you're adding value to people's
lives when that means so much to them
that they want to permanently put it on
their body so that's incredibly
incredibly important so the night before
like that's where we were and then I
realized that I can't send impact theory
to speak at your event impact Theory
can't sit here and talk into the camera
so building my persona and letting
people know because all of the ideology
of impact theory as of today is
precisely Tom Bill you it is me putting
my beliefs into an entity so I thought
in what's going on with personal
branding as a way to build a following I
want to be able to capitalize on that
and if there's always a once remove
factor of it being impact theory and not
me that I'm not gonna be able to grow my
following as fast as I want but make no
mistake the long term play is impact
Theory so
i if i had to do it over again I would
have named the show the tom bill you
show which dr. finesse all but begged me
to do and I said absolutely not no one
is gonna tattoo Tom Billy on themselves
who wants to come on the Tom Billy show
like impact theory tells people what
it's about blah blah blah now we're
creating so much [__] confusion
because by the way if you haven't
already if you're into movies comic
books TV shows if you want to know how
that stuff can empower you how it can
change your life go right now to
youtube.com forward slash impact theory
studios impact theory studios and dive
into that content that is the future of
this company and ten years from now I
really hope that I'm Way less of the
frontman for this company and that we're
just doing so much amazing content and
changing so many people's lives that you
guys think about all those characters
versus just thinking about me now I'm a
big believer in continuing to do what
got you here so look I know that going
out meeting people doing the events
touring around like a musician doing
endless Q&A is doing the Amma's like I
will keep doing this stuff forever I
just hope that what Dwarfs
what I'm doing here is all of the
content that we're gonna be creating
because I think that stuff has the
ability to really touch people
emotionally allows them to take
ownership of it in a way that they can't
take ownership of me so yeah but it's
all confusing and we've totally [__]
it up and I look I think the reality is
the stuff evolves over time I think we
actually made the right decision for
where we were
it just it gets complicated as you go
there you go alright so Ricardo Poulos
fuels if you have not reached rock
bottom or have had a life-changing
experience do you think we can create
such a life-changing experience or do we
have to build our winning brick by brick
okay
so I think the honest answer is the
human animal is really bad at change
without suffering and I wish that
weren't so I wish there was an easy way
but look all the information that you
need is out there right now go read a
book go listen to a podcast find
somebody that's been successful in the
way that you want and listen to them the
bad news is you won't take all of their
advice you'll take some of it some small
percentage but
the reality is you're gonna have to go
out and try and suffer and fail all on
your own to learn now the great news is
it works and works really well and if
you fail and suffer and fall on your
face and get back up enough times and
really reflect on it then you're gonna
get better in Ray Dalio has an amazing
math equation which I'm gonna use so
much I think it's really really powerful
and that is pain plus reflection equals
progress and I think that that's
incredibly incredibly true and the
human-animal just needs that bit of pain
it is the compass that's going to allow
you if you reflect on why you're feeling
that pain what you did wrong how you
failed you don't deflect you don't make
it somebody else's problem you really
just look at how did I [__] this up if
you look at that and are willing to make
the changes you really will make
progress I don't see a way to really
have grand scale change without the
suffering that's the truth all right
next question is from Awesomeness nope
yes we're scrolling like we are we're
having a seizure here alright while you
do that
have a sip of water okay this is alright
so Chase is having a seizure and bear
with us everybody all right this is from
Thomas stock line Thomas what are you
doing are we settled now all right so
Tom of course nutrition and impact
Theory were to go out of business
tomorrow and you were to lose all of
your money and material possessions what
would you do starting from scratch what
are the first things you would do in the
first 90 days
oh god that's awesome ok so what would I
do
ok step number one deal morn so honestly
like I would I would allow myself a
period of morning and I would define
that now I'm not gonna stand still
during the morning period but I think
the reality is you have to okay Who am I
kidding I wouldn't do that I would defer
my morning I've been through something
like this so I know exactly what I would
do I would defer the morning and I would
immediately contact I would make a list
of all the people that were in the world
so unless I mean I'm gonna assume for a
second that impact Theory went out of
business
for reasons other than that the industry
I'll assume the industry hasn't imploded
this very weird way of saying that so
I'm gonna go to the ten people that I've
already earned credibility with that
know what I'm capable of that know how
II think that know my process that like
me want to be around me and I'm gonna go
offer my services to them and I'm going
to ask for either no money if at all
possible if I can smile I fan I can
sleep on some of these couch or
something like that and in fact I may
send my wife to get a job that at least
makes some money so that we can eat so
that I can then begin going back into
the industry and delivering value I
think it's the area that I'm gonna be
able to deliver the most value and I
would aim to get equity that's me so
that people understand look my business
may have failed but here's my vision
here's where I think I can add value I
would go in and I would have such a
freakish level of detail for what I'd be
able to do for their company and then I
would be asking for equity equities a
big thing for me so I wouldn't worry so
much about salary I would just make sure
that I was making enough to eat I don't
my ego isn't tied up in the house so as
much as I love the house and I love all
the worldly possessions my ego is tied
up in my ability to learn and my
willingness to suffer like if you really
want to know what makes me an egomaniac
it's those things so why do I do an
11-hour qnx I know nobody else can do it
so and it's just like every minute that
passes I'm getting more and more
arrogant about it and feeling great and
it's not like an ugly arrogance it's
like a fun arrogance of belief in myself
so I'm gonna go to them with a scary
detailed plan about the way that I'm
gonna help their company it is not
[__] it's not fluff I will really be
breaking down how I can help their
company so that I can go in and [__]
crush that meeting and say look you know
what just happened I will own my
mistakes I won't [__] I'll say this
is exactly what happened this is what I
learned this is why I'm not gonna make
those mistakes again and this is what I
think that I can do for your company
this is why I think that I deserve
equity and I'm just gonna go down that
list someone is gonna say yes I would
first go down everything that I want to
do in the film industry and if I don't
get any bites there then I would
immediately go down food nutrition and
then I literally guaranteed one of those
two areas somebody would bring me on as
an equity partner because my pitch would
be
dick Ulis to the point where if all they
did was take the meeting their business
would be better for it so I hold myself
accountable to that to real results I
would be the best interview they ever
had I would be trying to give away every
idea for their company that I have
because I know ideas are a dime a dozen
and all that matters is execution so
they will be in the meeting thinking oh
my god if this is what he's willing to
do just to get like a meeting with us
what would he be willing to do if we
actually brought him on and started
paying him something so and again I
would throw my ask financially in the
[__] dirt and I would say look I'll
work at this for a year and if lease is
working and we can afford to eat I would
work for free and I would say I'll just
free yard no problem what I want is the
equity and then I would work my way back
up so yeah I actually get excited
answering that question because if you
can't face the loss of all your material
possessions with excitement it means
that you don't believe in your abilities
and you need to spend time focus on your
abilities so yeah all right Brad span
face book how do I focus on
accomplishing one thing at a time
when I have so much to do in one day
what's the best way to give your
attention to what matters while still
accomplishing the other things that need
to get done example I have lots of
schoolwork to do every day but also want
to spend time learning the things that
need to achieve my goals all right so
this is all about getting really
efficient with your time so you're going
to want to make a list I titled mine
important things entitle yours whatever
you think is best and on that list it's
it's all action items so it isn't just
pontification it's gonna be here are the
things that I need to do and in order so
make sure that they're in order of what
Tim Ferriss calls the lead domino so you
want to knock over that the thing that
then will cause other things to fall
over first excuse me so find that lead
Domino make sure that you're doing that
first do the hard things do the
important things do them in order and
make sure that you're blocking out your
time make sure you also carve out time
to think so you need both but at the end
of the day if you're not taking action
nothing matters so I would keep that
list and I would live in that list and I
would just constantly be going through
that list to make sure that I'm moving
the most important things forward
first and then make sure you're being
deadly efficient with your time so if
you audit your time I think you'd be as
horrified as if you audit what you
actually eat and most people don't
realize how many weird little calories
they slip in here and there especially
if you have kids and you
a French fired - after play you're
having some other macaroni it's like
time is exactly the same like how much
time did you spend at the water cooler
just chatting how much time did you
spend on reddit like all these things
end up sucking away a lot of your time
and people don't realize how much of
their time they lose to that so getting
deadly efficient with your time I think
you'll find that you have plenty of time
to do things sequentially you can't do
everything you want at the same time but
you can certainly do them sequentially
if you're really efficient with your
time okay
next the art of unpredictability if
impact Theory is so centered on you do
you worry what might happen when you're
no longer the frontman for the company
do you have plans in place to hand that
off eventually I have absolutely no
plans to hand it off right now but will
if we're as successful as I want to be
then a succession plan will become
absolutely critical if even if I don't
plan to live forever this is a simpler
way to answer the question
I've still got assuming my health stays
in order I've got God are you gonna give
me 40 years I mean what's his name
Berkshire Hathaway Buffett Warren
Buffett thank you is in his 80s he's
still kicking it so hopefully you'll
give me at least 40 years that I'll be
able to do this so thinking about a
succession plan right now I think it'd
be a real waste of time but my wife has
very strict instructions if I die she
shuts down the business immediately so
now that's just the reality as of right
now this is a cult of personality and it
can't stay that way forever I don't want
it to stay that way that is actually not
what I get off on or enjoy what I really
really enjoy in fact I ask this of
everybody on everybody I've asked this
many many many times of people coming
into the company there are two choices
before you choice number one you help
let's say five people and they all know
who you are they would credit you with
transforming their life at your funeral
they would say this man is the woman is
the reason that I have been successful
plain and simple I owe everything to
them they're crying and it's like you
touch their lives you touch their
family's lives or would you rather
affect five million people and none of
them know who you are now for me it's
not even tough choice
I would rather affect the five million
people and they have absolutely no idea
I am at scale is all I care about that's
it
I am obsessed with doing things at scale
I'm actually never taken the time to
reflect on why I like that so much but
scale is what matters to me really
helping a lot a lot a lot of people that
is the thing that I'm really driven by
so ultimately I think that yeah I mean
ultimately unless medical science does
what I hope they do and allow me to live
forever I am going to die at some point
and this is gonna have to be passed on
to somebody else and so I'll worry about
it at some point but probably not until
about 10 or 15 years before I think okay
I'm probably gonna retire and then you
start grooming somebody all right Marco
Marquez how do you deal with pain do you
reward yourself each day do you seek
instant gratification or do you wait
until you receive the pleasure you
actually want like achieving your
long-term goals so it really depends on
what the pain is if it's an acute pain I
forced myself to lean into it's like
when I'm at the dentist and it really
hurts
then I'll actually open my mouth wider
to make sure that they get like
absolutely no subtle signal for me that
I'm in pain because I want them to do
whatever the hell they need to do no
matter how much it hurts and then I'm
rewarding myself in a self
congratulatory way for not being a wuss
and for dealing with the pain when it's
in service of something that I actually
want to do and achieve when it's a
longer term like slower pain like just
being ultra discipline not eating the
things that I want to eat oftentimes
I'll focus on the results to keep myself
really excited about what I'm doing so
with diet living forever optimizing my
cognition looking good naked I'll stop
and think about those things and think
about having a discipline that other
people don't have and that gets me
excited
I'll also reframe it so if I'm really
dieting hard and I know that I'm gonna
be hungry for hours and hours and hours
on end days and weeks stacking up I will
welcome the hunger like an old friend
and I will literally say in my head
welcome hunger my old friend I am so
glad that you're here because it means
that I metabolizing fat so I do things
like that to really get my head in the
right place that I'm looking at
something is positive I'm looking at
what it's bringing me I'm focused on my
goals I know what I want I'm focusing on
the identity of being the kind of person
that's willing to do that and again it's
self congratulatory because you really
Stoke that you've got the
discipline and the ability to do that
stuff so learning how to be self
congratulatory in a way that isn't gross
that doesn't make you an egomaniac all
that stuff I think is really really
important and people need to learn to do
that
to have compassion have love for
yourself to really be stoked and who
you're becoming I think is a really
really important thing
okay this gonna have to be the last
question Irvin R Sanchez hey Thom what
steps did you take to separate business
growth from personal growth I often find
myself confused on which one to grow but
I do know that if you don't grow your
business won't grow either any tips so
for me they're inextricably connected
and my advice to anybody whether you're
a linchpin employee or whether you're an
entrepreneur there should not be any
difference between yourself as a person
and what you're doing is a job you spend
50 percent of your waking hours at your
job 50 percent of your waking hours are
at your job so and that's assuming I
think I did the math at like a 40 or 50
hour workweek so if you work as much as
I do where it's like 90 hours sometimes
more then it's like okay at some point
like if there is a difference between
who you are as a person the things you
want to learn and grow and get better at
and what you're spending all that time
on I don't think you're gonna look back
too favorably on your life and quite
frankly I don't think you're gonna enjoy
at the moment cuz I'm not a legacy guy I
don't think about like I literally I am
not at all worried about what I'm gonna
think on my deathbed because hopefully
my deathbed isn't a very long endeavor
so I would rather live my life the way
that I'm enjoying it right now today
like I'll just tell you I'm going to
regret on my death but I will for sure
regret not having kids a hundred percent
like that is so patently obvious to me
and when people ask like aren't you
worried you're gonna regret it not even
a little bit because I would regret
having kids today and today hopefully is
a lot longer because you got a whole lot
of today's than your deathbed so to me
optimize for what makes you feel the
most alive every day in the struggle
because the struggle is guaranteed so
that's where I like to spend my time
thinking about that thinking about the
things that are making me the person
that I want to become right now in the
moment if I'm fighting with something at
work that I'm still having to learn the
skills that I would want to learn even
if I wasn't at work and so yeah that's
it and I think that you can find that
whether you're a linchpin employee or
whether you're an entrepreneur
have to select the company that you work
for or the company that you create very
very very carefully alright that's it
for today guys thank you so much for
joining me very very excited we've got
some things in the works on the studio
side that hopefully we will be able to
share not too long into the new year
we're in the final stages of contract
negotiations on a project that I am in
sanely excited about and when we get to
announce this is gonna be [__]
awesome I'm super amped about it and by
the way we are beginning to take
submissions right now the process is a
little bit clumsy but if any of you out
there are writers or animators or even
graphic designers but that's a totally
separate thing but if you guys are
writers that's a really big one that we
need right now and you've got a project
or you want to submit just something
you've already done to be considered for
our collaboration incubator for lack of
a better word email connected impact
Theory comm will send you the submission
paperwork and then you can send it back
so we are very much in that process now
and hopefully if not before the end of
the year early in the new year we'll
have that whole submission process
automated but do you start sending that
stuff in as the studio is now gonna be
creating their first creative projects
which I'm very very excited about
alright guys thank you so much for
joining me if you haven't already be
sure to subscribe and until next time my
friends be legendary
take care
[Music]
[Applause]